Our BookStore application heavily relies on having such
reactive services because it constantly needs to interact
with our Java EE back-end through HTTP.
So we need a book service to be able to create a book, delete a book and so on.
This will bring the Book model,
which is a TypeScript representation of our Java Book entity.
The service and model will be used to list all the books from the database,
to display the detail of a single book, or to create a new book in our form.
In fact, anywhere we need to invoke our back-end,
on the booklist component we show the number of books from the database.
We get this information by doing an HTTP GET on /books/count.
Getting the entire list of books is an HTTP GET on /books.
To view the book detail, is an HTTP GET on /books/ the identifier of the book,
for example, 1234.
Once displayed,
we can delete the book by invoking an HTTP DELETE on /books/bookId.
Last but not least, after filling the form to create a new book,
we hit the Create button and do an HTTP POST on /books.
This is a lot of code we need to have on our Angular application, isn't it?
Yes, but remember that we have a JSON contract we could use to help us.
In module 10 we documented our book endpoint with an open
API contract implemented by Swagger.
This contract defines every single method exposed by our API.
Thanks to Swagger CodeGen,
we could use this contract to generate TypeScript code.
Here we have a TypeScript BookService defining the basePath variable,
pointing at our book endpoint URL.
The contract then defines the getBook method that we
find in the TypeScript version.
The contract gives us a bit more information,
such as the parameters to pass, here the book identifier,
and the response code.
What's important is to know what happens when the invocation succeeds,
that's at 200.
Well, if the getBook invocation succeeds,
a book has been found in the database and the
definition of the book is returned.
If a book is returned,
the TypeScript service can then return an observable of a book.
But what is a book?
If we scroll down our Swagger contract, we find the Book object representation,
which in TypeScript is represented by a Book class.
A Book has properties, such as a book Identifier of type integer.
In TypeScript, we get the attribute id of type number.
A book has a title of type string, same for TypeScript.
In this way Swagger CodeGen will generate the TypeScript class with all
the attributes corresponding to the Swagger definition.
And because the contract defines every single method with
all the parameters and return types,
Swagger CodeGen will generate the countBooks method returning a number of books.
Notice the Observable number.
The createBook method takes a book as a parameter
and returns an observable of void.
The deleteBook takes a book identifier as a parameter and
the getBooks returns an array of books.
This service acts like a proxy and needs the Angular HTTP module to be able to invoke through HTTP our back-end book endpoint.